# Using KEDA with prometheus

Scaling your application based on the number of requests it receives is a common situation. If you wanted to do that with KEDA, you could use the [KEDA http add-on](https://github.com/kedacore/http-add-on). This solution is great if your application is small and you don't mind the architecture of your existing application changing. However, if you want to scale based on requests without going through all that, you aren't left with many options. To begin with, you need a tool that can accurately capture the number of requests coming into each application. Service meshes have this information, but no service mesh out there handles pod scaling since that is well out of their scope.

Using KEDA with Prometheus can allow you to scale your application based on metrics that you would otherwise not have access to. Prometheus supports a wide variety of metrics out of the box, and you can use it in conjunction with other tools that push metrics into prometheus. It is also pretty simple for you to push your own metrics from your applications to Prometheus, and KEDA having a scaler based on Prometheus means you can scale based on just about anything. If you need to get a refresher on Prometheus as well as some idea about PromQL, head over to the [Prometheus](../201/monitoring/prometheus.md) section. In this case, we will be using a mix of Prometheus and [LinkerD](../ServiceMesh101/what-is-linkerd.md) to scale your KEDA application based on the number of requests it receives. We will be using the version of Prometheus that comes bundled with LinkerD, so you don't have to set up Prometheus in your cluster separately.