# Multi-tenant architecture

A multi-tenant architecture is when you segregate your infrastructure based on your clients. A single instance of the software application is served to multiple customers, known as tenants. Each tenant's data and configuration are logically isolated from each other, but they share the same underlying infrastructure and codebase.

This can have many benefits, but whether you should go for an infrastructure like this is dependent on several things. Let's start off by looking at the immediate advantages of this design.

First and foremost is resource isolation. Not only does this improve security and compliance for the organization, but it also enables you to get a better idea of the resource usage and related costs that each client incurs for your company. You can use this information to better improve billing. If a single client starts growing, you can scale out that particular client's infrastructure without having to scale out everything while charging them to match. If you have a large number of small clients (individual customers), you could even provision resources on a per-customer basis. This is not in the scope of this lesson but is covered in the [Kubezoo](../Kubezoo/what-is-kubezoo.md) section.

The next is customization. It is normal for different customers to have different requirements, and a regular architecture would not be able to cater to that. With a multi-tenant system, since each customer's applications are isolated from one another, providing customization on a per-client basis becomes pretty easy.

Of course, all this doesn't mean you need to have extra computing power. Despite having a separate infrastructure per client, you will still use the same resources for all of them. In this section, we will be looking at how we can use a single cluster with one control plan and multiple worker nodes to set up a multi-tenant system that is broken down based on namespaces. But before we do that, let's consider when muti-tenancy might not be the best option.

First off, if your project is specifically designed for a single customer, then there is no point in spending time coming up with a new multi-tenant architecture since you will only have a single tenant. This does not apply if you plan to re-use your application and provide it to a different client. Additionally, if you have a large number of small clients already configured, switching to a multi-tenant architecture might not make a lot of sense considering the large amount of work it will require. Finally, if you don't already have a microservice architecture, then you will have to largely scrap the idea of running different groups of clients in different infrastructures since it will get fairly expensive.