# Kubesphere

As a Kubernetes engineer, you likely have little trouble navigating around a Kubernetes cluster. Setting up resources, observing pod logs, and troubleshooting root causes of errors, are all part of your daily work. However, what happens when someone who does not have a deep understanding of Kubernetes needs to do these things? For example, a project manager or a QA engineer might very well want to check out the reason why a pod failed so they can create a report about it. Tools such as Kube Lens exist to help with this observation without having to write any kubectl commands, but setting up Kube Lens is itself a process that a non-Kubernetes user may find difficult. It is necessary to install tools such as kubectl, set up the kubeconfigs, etc... What if things could be simpler, where anyone could just log into a dashboard and have access to everything with a few clicks? This is exactly what Kubesphere offers. A fully consolidated Kubernetes management system that anyone can log into and troubleshoot without any pre-existing Kubernetes knowledge.

But why stop there? If you have a team of network engineers or IT admins, they likely know a lot about infrastructure, but not so much about Kubernetes. If they wanted to quickly deploy a job, for instance, they would have to start at the beginning and learn everything about pods, clusters, and jobs before they can do that. While this is recommended, trying to learn Kubernetes, which has a huge learning curve might be impractical for someone who doesn't use it regularly. Therefore, a tool that allows you to create just about any type of resource with a few user-friendly clicks would be really helpful. Kubesphere can help you here and supports you in creating all sorts of resources from jobs to ingresses to config maps and storage classes.

For a non-Kubernetes person, explaining the concept of Helm charts and how they can be used might be a little tricky, and Kubesphere has a solution for that too. Kubesphere provides its own app store that allows you to select which service you wish to integrate into your Kubernetes cluster and allows you to deploy it with a single click of a button. So if you wanted to add sonarqube integration to your cluster, you only have to select the option in the App Store and deploy.

If this wasn't enough features for you, you also have things such as an in-built istio service mesh and direct integration with [KubeEdge](https://kubeedge.io/en/), and additional features are being added all the time. So let's get started with installing and setting up KubeSphere.