Next, let's look at Octant by VMware. Octant toes the line between being a desktop application and a web interface, in that you install it locally on your desktop, and it launches a server that gives you access to your cluster using your web browser. It uses your local kubeconfig to provide access to your clusters. Hence, there is no additional configuration required, and you can set up the kubeconfig in a server and have Octant installed on it, then serve it using a simple Nginx server. However, it is impossible to restrict access based on roles since the application was not designed for it. Specifically, Octant is designed to manage Tanzu Kubernetes Clusters, which are preconfigured enterprise-grade clusters provided by VMware.

Octant provides all the features of tools such as Headlamp & Lens, except this has a high focus on development. While the other tools are mainly designed to be used by DevOps teams, Octant comes with inbuilt support for debugging and plug-ins over gRPC which are designed to be used by development teams testing out their software in Kubernetes clusters. So it makes sense that the tool would be run locally on your machine similar to an IDE used to debug application code instead of a web interface shared by many people. So depending on your use case, this might not fit your needs.

## ArgoCD

ArgoCD is not a cluster observability/operations tool, but rather a GitOps tool used to automate CI/CD processes. However, it deserves an honorable mention since it gives observability/operations access to all parts of a Kubernetes cluster other than the nodes. ArgoCD allows you to deploy new application revisions and then lays out a resource map of all the resources that come up when the deployment is performed. You can then edit/delete these resources from the same dashboard and it will get updated in real-time. ArgoCD also allows you to view the logs & events of a pod, and with a little configuration, you should be able to shell into a pod from within ArgoCD as well.