# Kubernetes cluster observability

In this section, we will look at several tools that can help improve your cluster administration and observability. This won't cover monitoring tools like Prometheus and Grafana, which are tools used to read metrics from, but rather tools that allow you to perform actions on your clusters such as [KubeSphere](../KubeSphere/what-is-kubesphere.md). Since we've already discussed in detail about KubeSphere, which is a rather heavy-weight application that has all sorts of features, let's take a look at more light-weight alternatives that focus largely on converting your various kubectl commands to UI-based interface options.

## Lens

Let's start with one of the most popular cluster observability tools: Kube Lens. This is a desktop tool that can be used to perform pretty much anything you would do with the kubectl command line and is very stable and feature-rich. If you are a DevOps engineer working with Kubernetes clusters, Lens is a must. There are two versions of Lens: the one maintained by Mirantis (https://k8slens.dev) and the Open Lens maintained by the community. They both largely have the same features and provide an excellent way to access your cluster without using a host of kubectl commands.

Since Lens is a desktop tool, the setup is fairly simple - assuming you already have the cluster accessible via kubectl. If this is the case, all you have to do is install the desktop application, and your cluster should be in the catalog section of Lens. Once you connect to the cluster, you will be shown a list of resources, all relating to your Kubernetes cluster. This will include workloads (such as pods, and jobs), resources such as nodes, networking objects such as services and ingresses, etc... You should also be able to easily edit each of these resources using the inbuilt editor, as well as exec into pods, nodes, and other resources. You can also select custom resources created by CRDs, and view and edit them.

Another cool feature Lens provides is the ability to port forward any port onto localhost. This is the same functionality provided by the `kubectl port-forward` command but allows you to skip having to write out the command each time. It's generally accepted that Lens is a pretty great tool for any beginners who want to get into Kubernetes without having to belt out an army of commands for everything.

Another notable mention for Kubernetes desktop IDEs is Octant, developed by VMware.

It's also great for developers and QA who aren't necessarily familiar with kubectl, but want to check deployments, container logs, etc... on dev and QA Kubernetes clusters. The problem for these people is having to set up the cluster on their local machines before using it to access Lens. For example, if we were dealing with an EKS cluster, they would have to be given the correct permissions from IAM, get the access key and secret key, download the AWS CLI, set it up on their machines, and run the `AWS update kubeconfig` command to get the cluster available. This might not be an issue for you or anyone in the DevOps team since you would have the cluster ready on your machine anyway, but it's a bunch of extra steps for a non-DevOps person. This is where the web-based dashboards come in.

## Headlamp

[Headlamp](https://headlamp.dev) is an excellent option for a very minimal, no-frills Kubernetes dashboard. This is a React-based project that can be set up both as a desktop application as well as a browser-based app. The browser-based version is probably the most lightweight, yet fully featured dashboard out there, running a single pod that takes around 10MB of memory. This makes it a great option for small clusters, where you don't want the dashboard taking up too many resources. Headlamp allows you to do almost everything you can do with kubectl, such as view, edit, and configure resources. It also allows you to exec into pods, but not nodes (as of right now). One especially cool feature of Headlamp is its extensible plugin system, which allows you to extend the libraries provided by Headlamp to add your own components to the Headlamp dashboard as you see fit. These include things like changing logos, adding items to the sidebar, and title bar, creating your own custom pages, etc... You can see some examples of this functionality in their [plugins page](https://headlamp.dev/docs/latest/development/plugins/functionality).

If you are running as a production cluster, then you need to limit the number of people that can access this cluster. Since the Headlamp dashboard can allow you to do admin-level stuff with your Kubernetes cluster, you must enable authentication. To support this, Headlamp allows all sorts of authentication for your cluster such as Dex, Keycloak, and AWS Cognito. Essentially every type of OIDC authentication is supported. You can get more information on this on their [authentication page](https://headlamp.dev/docs/latest/installation/in-cluster/dex/). We shall discuss using tools like Keycloak with Kubernetes to secure your in-cluster services in a different section. Headlamp is fully open source and does not have an enterprise edition, but its very easy to get support from the great community of Headlamp users.

While Headlamp is a great, lightweight web-based dashboard, it only allows you to observe and perform basic functions on your cluster. If you need a much more heavy-hitting application that gives you observability, but also allows you to cram the entire build & deploy pipeline into a single tool, you can consider a tool like Devtron.

## Devtron

Devtron has all the features of Headlamp & Lens, such as viewing, editing, and logging, but it also includes its own build and deploy stack. You can create a Devtron application that reads off a repo and builds the application based on your specifications. The image gets pushed to your image repo of choice, and you can then have additional CI/CD pipelines that deploy this image into your cluster. The image can be deployed with regular Kubernetes manifest files, or with Helm charts. This is part of the Build & Deploy integration.