# Linode Kubernetes Engine

Linode is a fully featured cloud service provider, and LKE is its Kubernetes engine (similar to AKS or GKE). As with other Kubernetes engines, the aim of LKE is to abstract away the master nodes so that you only have to worry about your Kubernetes worker nodes. There are a lot of things that need to be considered when setting up Kubernetes, especially for large organizations that handle sensitive data. Security, privacy, and robustness are needed to ensure that your customers don't have their information compromised, as well as ensure that they don't face any downtime. Setting up and maintaining such systems can get complicated, which is why LKE does that job for you. In addition to completely handling your master node, LKE also gives you the luxury of taking and setting up your own worker nodes from within the Linode stack. This means that you can maintain your entire architecture within the Linode cloud.

This means that features such as guaranteed uptime and security will also extend to your worker nodes, and thereby the entire Kubernetes stack. Maintaining your own server is a costly business since you need to fix any issues that come up with them, as well as invest heavily in the actual machines, whose processing power is something you may not even fully end up using. Cloud services, on the other hand, manage the servers for you, and allow you to only pay for the resources that you use. Linode is no exception, so let's dive in!

## Setting up

To get started, you need to create an account with Linode, which comes with $50 of credit. You also need kubectl which you will be using to run the various Kubernetes commands. If you have installed Minikube or an equivalent in the past, you likely already have kubectl. If not, you can [follow the official guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#install-kubectl-on-windows) to get the latest version of kubectl installed. This is all you have to do to get up and running with Linode.

## Creating a cluster

To create a cluster, you can use the [cloud manager](https://cloud.linode.com/) which gives you an intuitive interface that you can use to create resources. Simply click on the dropdown in the right-hand corner and select "Create a Kubernetes cluster". Once you do that, there is a handful of information you need to fill in, such as the name, region, and version. Once you do this, your fully managed Linode cluster is up and running. The second step is to create a bunch of worker nodes. The master node, which will be managed by Linode, will communicate with these worker nodes to run your application. This page is self-explanatory, and you can choose between their 2GB plan, the way to their 192GB plan which comes with 192GB of RAM, 32 CPUs, and 3TB of storage. All that will only cost you $1.44 an hour. This is something you will also see across other competing cloud platforms, and this cost-effective computing power is why many large organizations have moved to cloud-based systems.

After you set the nodes that you want to use, you can still edit your configuration later to add or remove worker nodes. All the information relating to your nodes is available at a single glance on the right-hand side of the cloud manager. Now that your cluster is active, it's time to start using it. As with all Kubernetes clusters, you need to use the kubeconfig file to access the cluster, and the config file for your LKE cluster can be found in the Kubernetes section of the cloud manager. Your clusters should be listed there, and you can download the kubeconfig from here. Place your kubeconfig in its prescribed place, or use terminal commands to set the kubeconfig:

```
export KUBECONFIG=path/to/kubeconfig.yaml
```

Now you should be able to run kubectl commands on your terminal and access your cluster. If the cluster access works fine, then you have successfully set up your cluster.

## Cluster autoscaling

One major advantage of using Kubernetes on the cloud as opposed to hosting your cluster on an on-premise server is the autoscaling abilities that come with it. Unlike an on-premise server that has a fixed set of resources that cannot change unless you scale vertically by adding more servers, LKE can dynamically add and remove nodes to meet demand. This way, you don't have unused nodes that idle, thereby costing you money, and you don't have to worry about seeing a sudden surge in traffic that you can't account for. You need to start by heading over to the [cluster details page](https://www.linode.com/docs/kubernetes/deploy-and-manage-a-cluster-with-linode-kubernetes-engine-a-tutorial/#access-your-clusters-details-page) and using the Autoscale Pool option. You then need to set the minimum and the maximum number of nodes, so that the autoscaler knows how much it needs to scale your system to meet demand. However, note that LKE will not forcibly scale down or up to meet the maximum or the minimum number of set nodes. This is because doing so could lead to possible disruptions to your system if, for example, 5 nodes suddenly had to handle the work of 10.

## High availability

If you are running, for instance, an e-commerce site, then it is vital that the service does not go down. This is because your website going down directly relates to lost profits. For these kinds of situations, most cloud Kubernetes providers, including Linode, have introduced high availability clusters. These clusters guarantee a close-to-100-per cent up time and have no single points of failure, which means that one thing going wrong won't end up with your whole cluster failing. The clusters also have duplicates, meaning that even if the cluster was to go down, another would quickly step in to take its place and the loss of profits would be minimal. A full description of how Linode manages to keep its highly available clusters highly available can be found [here](https://www.linode.com/docs/guides/introduction-to-high-availability/).

High availability clusters are separate from the normal clusters you create, and it is possible to switch from a normal cluster to a high availability cluster. 