# GKE Service Mesh

Similar to other cloud Kubernetes providers, GKE also provides support for service meshes. For a quick refresher on what service meshes are, refer to the [service meshes](../ServiceMesh101/what-are-service-meshes.md) section. If you also want to get an insight into how service meshes are supported on Azure, that's is [also convered](../AKS101/aks-service-mesh.md).

This lesson will also assume you know what Istio is. If you would like to read further on the subject, please refer to the [Istio section](../ServiceMesh101/what-is-istio.md). The reason we would be looking at Istio is that we will be talking about the [Anthos Service Mesh](https://cloud.google.com/service-mesh/docs/overview), which is powered by Istio. Anthos also has full support on GCP, making it the easiest service mesh to set up on your GKE cluster.

The Anthos service mesh provides all the usual features you get from a service mesh, such as managing cluster traffic. This includes the ability to load balance services, perform blue-green deployments, and more. The service mesh applies across the entire infrastructure without having any impact on your code so that you don't have to change anything within your existing cluster. If you have set up service meshes on clusters before, you might notice that there is a number of steps that you need to take before you get the service mesh up and running. While some of these steps are unavoidable, Anthos automates most of the steps in between when used with GKE. For starters, it is available as a Google Cloud Marketplace 