# Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service

You are most likely aware of AWS, and the benefits that using a cloud solution like that can have. AWS is the largest cloud provider in the world and has hundreds of services that it provides for a fraction of the cost it takes for you to set up those services yourself (if you can set them up by yourself in the first place). EKS is one of those services and works similar to other rival Kubernetes solutions, such as [AKS](../AKS101/what-is-aks.md), and [LKE](../LKE101/what-is-lke.md).

Since you most likely have used some form of Kubernetes engine at some point, you are probably aware of the problems that exist when setting up the cluster. Software such as minikube makes the process easy, but it is meant for development work and not for large-scale clusters. If you were part of an organization and were planning to run all your clusters on-premise, then you would need separate teams to manage the cluster, teams to enforce cluster security, and other people to maintain cluster infrastructure such as the servers on which these clusters run. In a large organization, this may be somewhat practical. However, for start-ups and even mature companies, hiring all these people and equipment is a costly endeavor that borders on impractical.

EKS, therefore, acts as a reliable solution. Your master nodes will all be managed by EKS, including their security, infrastructure, and backups. You would also be able to scale up and down without having to worry about purchasing new servers and be able to handle everything in an intuitive UI of the AWS portal. This means that even a single developer can leverage the power of EKS and start using the Kubernetes cluster without having to worry about start-up costs. They also no longer need to be experts in Kubernetes since EKS does most of the work for them.

To start, you need to have an AWS account along with a VPC, as well as an IAM user. 